So you're gonna look at this and
you're gonna say,
this seems a lot like use,
what we were just talking about, useMemo.
So useCallback and useMemo end up
being functionally very similar.
And in fact useCallback is implemented
internally with react with useMemo.
So that's something to just keep in mind,
that these are pretty related.
So first thing I'm gonna do
is I'm going to change my
memo to be back to like one so
this is not crazy anymore.
Okay, and
then we're gonna go back here to Callback.
All right, so, here with useCallback,
I have the time that's going
up every second, all right?
So, this component using an effect here,
is the timer is going up every second.
So, this component here re-rendering
every single second, which means that
everything inside of it needs to be
pretty performance because if it's gonna
hang it's going to make our clock look
like it's not, moving up every second.
It's not gonna look like a clock, right?
But I have this component down here that's
also using this Fibonacci sequence again.
So when it's at one, it's not a big deal.
But if this was at, again 30,
we can just put it up here at 30,
if we want to, or 40.
This will take a second to re-render.
But notice that this is still
counting up at a normal rate.
Let's go dig into that a little bit.
Like we talked about before,
whenever we render a parent component,
the children component are going to
re-render as well unless we have some
sort of like should component update that
tells it like wait, do not re-render me.
So one of those things that can kind of be
a problem is, in order to get access to
local data, we have to use closures,
right, and whenever we're making closures,
we're creating new functions in
the process every single time.
Well, here's kind of a problem with this.
What happens with this Fibonacci sequence
function lives in the callback component.
But it's called in the expensive
computation component.
Now, it's a very specific use case and
if you're wondering why would I do this?
And the answer is frequently
you can code around this.
So I invented a situation
this is what happened, but
you could definitely code around this and
not do it this way.
But I'm gonna show you how
to make it work anyway.
All right, so I have callback component,
and I have the count.
These both live in callback component.
And so I have to use Fibonacci here,
because that's coming from
the callback component.
But that gets passed down into
the expensive computation component
which is running the compute here.
Now, this is a problem because if I don't,
if I'm providing a new
function every single time to
this useCallback component here,
sorry, to the expensive
computation component here,
this is going to re-render every single
time that the time advances, right?
And if this is 40 that's a big
problem because it's going to try and
calculate the Fibonacci of
40 every single second.
And like, I would take this out so I could
show you what it looks like but let me
promise, it would just hang up the entire
browser and we would never get it back.
Right, just take my word for
that if we were not using useCallback
here with the Fibonacci here,
that this would re-render every single
time and then we would have a big problem.
So what does useCallback do?
UseCallback takes in a function here,
right?
And it takes in some sort of dependency
thing here, which in this case,
we're telling it, hey, Fibonacci never
changes, so don't worry about it.
And this way, it's going to give it
back the same Fibonacci function.
So this one here, it's gonna give the same
Fibonacci function back every single time.
So therefore, this expensive
computation component gets the same
function which it's gonna say then,
okay, I do not need to re-render.
That's the the functional thing here.
We do have to talk a little bit
about memo of why that's important.
But do you understand the gist of like
we're trying to give it the literally
the same function every single time so
that react doesn't think that
the function is changing.
Because if I give it Fibonacci and
then I give it a second copy of a,
it's of Fibonacci but
it's a different instance of it.
It's gonna think it's like these
are different things, right?
It's just like how, well,
it's basically this.
These are two different functions, right?
Or maybe a better way of
putting this is function A,
Function B.
A, now it's upset at me.
So I have function A here and
I have function B here.
They're functionally equivalent,
they do exactly the same thing, but
they are not the same thing, right?
They are two functions that are separate
that do precisely the same thing.
And that's the thing that we're gonna run
in here with Fibonacci is that we're gonna
have two different Fibonacci's that
are functionally the same function,
but are actually two different
instances of the same function.
So that's what useCallback is doing
here is it's giving you the same copy of
the same function.
So in this case,
it's gonna give you A every single
time an A is triple equals to A.
Okay, so we got that,
now let's talk about memo.
By default, this Callback component is
gonna re-render expensive computational
component every single time anyway.
It's not gonna check to say, okay,
did I get the same property as last time.
It's just like, you know what,
I don't know what they're doing in there,
they could be doing weird stuff in there.
In this case, we are doing weird stuff.
We're putting new dates in here, so this
actually does change every single time.
What memo does is it's like all right,
I'm gonna check the properties,
and if compute and
count come back the same as last time,
I'm just not gonna re-render it, right?
So it's gonna check the props.
If the props stayed the same,
then it's not going to re-render.
That's what memo does.
If you've ever used react before and
you've heard a thing called a pure
components this is the same idea, right?
So a pure component is
the same idea of like
if the properties don't change then
the render is gonna be the same so
you can just go ahead and
use what it used last time.
Memo is just that but for
functional components.
So between using memo and
using useCallback here,
we're able to prevent this from
rendering every single time.
In fact, you can see here in rendering
the last time that this rendered.
The last time this rendered
was now two minutes ago.
But if I click current count so that the
count here does change, so I click that,
it will take forever to re-render.
Notice that this last last few
render is gonna update and it did.
But it's not re-rendering every
single time because we used memo and
useCallback together to prevent
that render from happening.
Very specific performance
optimization here.
Again, I've never had to do it
professionally, but it does exist.
You might find yourself
in a situation of like,
I have to calculate the Fibonacci sequence
and I also have to have a clock and
I don't know how to have that
at the same time, right?
If you find yourself in that, you'll
be like Brian told me about this right?
[LAUGH] Until then you're gonna be like,
I'm just gonna file that away
under like probably not gonna use.
So there's definitely a lot
of ways to code around this.
One of these is that Fibonacci definitely
does not have to live inside of callback
component.
In this case, it's a pure function
the sense that it takes in an n and
returns a number.
So it actually is not referencing
anything inside of here.
So yeah, you totally could and
that would be totally fine.
And then we would have to use useCallback.
We wouldn't have to use,
we would still have to use memo but
we would not have to use useCallback.